Brian Kern: Sorry, I just dropped the phone.
Brian Kern: Going on, you know, like I haven't, I haven't left the house. I mean we we actually went to the park earlier.
Brian Kern: That was the first time I'd like
Brian Kern: left the house.
Brian Kern: For a reason other than going to the store.
Brian Kern: Or like to pick up my meds, you know,
Was kind of cool.
Brian Kern: Like nothing really going on too much. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You get a chance to practice the imagery exercises.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: for you this week.
Brian Kern: Oh,
Brian Kern: No, really, I looked, I looked at the list and stuff, but I didn't really have any thoughts like that this week and all
Brian Kern: That Oh good. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, you have access to them whenever those thoughts visit you can access them, you already
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know how to access
Brian Kern: Yeah, I have it on
Brian Kern: I haven't saved on my phone.
Brian Kern: Document.
Brian Kern: Good.
Brian Kern: Yeah. Yesterday got
Brian Kern: Emotional for some people. I don't remember why but
Brian Kern: Everybody was getting like emotional
Brian Kern: Oh,
Well,
Brian Kern: The topic was just like
Brian Kern: You know name like it was, it was like a check and and she was basically like okay
Brian Kern: You know, just say how you're doing like spiritually.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And like physically
Brian Kern: Just like all around, you know, like, How are you doing, and then
Brian Kern: One person.
Brian Kern: started crying because I don't remember like I couldn't understand what she was saying like, I didn't understand it really like something about her brother, you know, and then
Brian Kern: The people who shared after her start getting really emotional
Brian Kern: I couldn't like I
Brian Kern: I couldn't like I wasn't cognizant of, like, what
Brian Kern: She was actually talking about the other than she said that she thought she was going to relapse. Yeah, I think that's what got people emotional really
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was there anything
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That arose for you while she was speaking
Brian Kern: Oh,
Brian Kern: No, I mean like I could you know like
Brian Kern: She was talking about how she was like really anxious, all the time. So like I can relate to that like
Brian Kern: When I relapsed in January. That's how I felt.
Brian Kern: You know, like I felt like I just was super anxious all the time that it was like, you know, like heroin was like the only thing that was going to help it so like I could relate, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, no, I'm actually going to say that to
Brian Kern: Tell her era, but I didn't have a chance to
Brian Kern: This group and shortly after that, but I can definitely relate to her. Yeah, yeah.
Brian Kern: It wasn't something like
Brian Kern: get emotional about though.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you think
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was challenging because I'm not an emotional person.
Brian Kern: Um,
Brian Kern: Yeah, might be it honestly like
Brian Kern: I don't know that I just, you know, like I understood you know like I understood
Brian Kern: You know, I just didn't
Like
Brian Kern: You know, I said it just
Brian Kern: You know, like I can definitely like put myself in their shoes. You know, I
Brian Kern: Understand it but
Brian Kern: You know, this is not something
Brian Kern: Get emotional over really
Brian Kern: Does that make sense.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you can definitely relate to it, but it doesn't create an emotional response for you.
Brian Kern: Yeah, exactly.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, that makes sense. I was just curious if that's across the board, you know if there are any certain certain challenges or issues that do create an emotional response or emotional reaction from you, such as crying.
Brian Kern: Are there any
Yeah.
Brian Kern: It's hard to say really because
Brian Kern: You know, like I didn't, you know, I didn't
Brian Kern: I didn't cry on my mother died, really, I just got high, you know, and
Brian Kern: Same with. Same with my brother really
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Brian Kern: I mean I can definitely like
Brian Kern: You know, I guess there's been times when I've been upset.
Brian Kern: I mean like only get upset.
Brian Kern: Necessarily
Brian Kern: Be outwardly
Brian Kern: Responsive to it. You know, I mean,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's always been that way for you.
Brian Kern: Yeah, so
Brian Kern: For the most part,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You think that comes from
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Being a male. Do you think there's cultural influences trauma. What do you think creates kind of like that that protective shell.
Brian Kern: I don't know, honestly, I might like because I think my dad's the same way.
You know,
Brian Kern: Like maybe I just got it from him or something.
Brian Kern: He's like exactly the same like
Brian Kern: No.
Brian Kern: He's Just Not every late. Our Lee emotional person at all, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just can't imagine on the losses that you mentioned, and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not crying, but I'm you know I asked because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I asked because just if there is, you know, there are certain
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Things in our upbringing, that doesn't allow for us to express the issues and maybe learn how to express
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Emotions to our childhood experiences we watch how our periods, we react to challenges. And if that reaction is shut down. Then, as adults, we may tend to shut down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If the reaction is to override overreact and either get anxious or overly emotional about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's probably what you're doing your adulthood, because we mirror and we are you know we are sponges as children. So we absorb whatever childhood experiences, etc.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then we model that in adulthood, unless in our adulthood, we realize that we don't want it to be this way for whatever reason.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If it doesn't feel emotionally connecting if you feel detached, then you try to reverse that cycle through figure out other ways to express your emotions. So Brian is an outlet for you. What is an outlet for you when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're having something that triggers an emotional response. But did you do when your mother passed away and your brother.
Brian Kern: Times.
Brian Kern: That's, you know, basically what I did.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what you want to be mindful of Brian is if there's something that happens in the midst of my sobriety that naturally require
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A tearful response or an extreme emotion.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What will I do because in the past it was us.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But now, one to learn new skills so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would that look like, you know, just some for you to think of you may not even have the answers now and that's okay, but have that on the back of your mind. So you're not surprised when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Something happens and you just don't know how to respond because you don't want to use the you have no other alternatives and so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: don't identify other alternatives and now
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You might just go with the ladder and decide to you and I don't want that for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You see my screen here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Work Environment feels so stressful, have you come home from a meeting feeling like you know
Brian Kern: Everyone's out to get you, or does your home feel like
There's a lot of tension. Maybe you want your teenager to feel comfortable talking with you, but it's just not working. If any of these are the case for you, then you might have a problem with emotional safety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: creating an environment of emotional safety is essential for a productive workplace a healthy home and positive relationships. If you feel tense or like you're being judged all the time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or if you create an environment where people don't feel listened to, or understood
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then your environment is not emotionally safe. Today we're going to talk about a few ways you can increase emotional safety in your environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Emotional safety is when people feel appreciated valued worthwhile when they feel like they can trust their environment to be fair and consistent and kind
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In an emotionally safe environment people feel like they can share
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Their vulnerable and sensitive feelings without being mocked blamed or judged feedback and correction can be given in a calm safe and loving manner.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People take accountability for their own actions without blame or defensiveness differences of opinion can be shared.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And also accepted, people don't feel like they have to change to be okay in emotionally safe environments. There's a feeling of honesty.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And there's a feeling of clear and safe expectations, some of the indicators of an emotionally safe environment or you feel comfortable around each other.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People don't feel like they're going to be attacked.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There tends to be open and clear communication when someone messes up repairs are made quickly, you'll see an increase in Vulnerability and openness, where people are sharing their really sensitive feelings.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And people feel connected. Now, if you'd like to create an environment like this. You have to focus 95% of your effort on changing yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We are responsible for our environment and what we what we put out there and what we allow to come into our environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So most of your effort should be focusing on yourself. I say this because when I talk about emotional safety. I get a lot of people say, Oh yeah, the people around me. They're so dangerous. They're so mean there's attacking there so judgmental de de de de
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And they don't realize that by saying that and thinking that they're actually creating an emotionally unsafe environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or perhaps the people around them actually are attacking and dangerous, but they aren't taking any steps to create safety for themselves by setting healthy boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So when it comes to emotional safety focus on yourself. What can you do to create this the opposite of emotional safety is judgment blame attacking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's a lot of closed off emotions so people use anger instead of sadness or they express frustration.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Instead of, you know, expressing that they feel discouraged some other indicators of an emotionally unsafe environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is people are constantly giving advice. Instead of listening.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or constantly judging someone else or trying to change them if they don't agree with them in emotionally unsafe environments. People feel a sense of conditional love that means well i love you if you change or I love you when you're good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But not when you're bad and that creates this constant sense of insecurity now on the receiving end of that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People who are constantly feeling like they aren't good enough or questioning their own self worth.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are going to project that on other people. So that's something that needs to be worked on in order to create a feeling of emotional safety other indicators of an emotionally unsafe environment are yelling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Threatening or obviously any physical violence that creates, you know, a completely unsafe environment defensiveness blame using voice tone or a lot of attitude.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: also contribute to a negative environment, as do passive aggressive statements.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: One of the most common indicators of an emotionally unsafe environment or using things like personal attacks. So instead of saying, I don't like it when you forget to do your tour. You say you are the laziest person in the world.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know that attacking their character just calling them a lazy sob. The other thing that's a big indicator of emotionally unsafe environments.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is when the rules are boundaries are standards are constantly changing. People don't know what to expect.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or when there's a feeling of walking on eggshells like if you say the wrong thing, that person is going to blow up. Or if you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If you do the wrong thing, that person is going to be offended. So those are all indicators of emotionally unsafe environments. We can actively create an environment of emotional safety by working on ourselves.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We create an environment of love, where we aren't trying to change other people, but rather we put our focus on trying to understand them and listen to them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When the time comes for correction. We are consistent for clear and fair we're honest with people.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we share our, our vulnerable emotions like Sadness or hurt instead of only expressing secondary emotions like frustration and anger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We create internal safety by building ourselves up and you know standing on offended not taking offense by what other people say.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We also got to make sure never to use the word emotional safety as a way to badger or try and change someone else so going up someone's in you're creating an emotionally unsafe environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is not going to be helpful if the environment is actually unsafe, then what we need to do is set boundaries around other people
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Ask for change. Invite change and when necessary leave to create emotional safety we always have to focus on what's within our own realm of control.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we focus on changing ourselves instead of trying to change other people, if we're in an emotionally unsafe environment we're less likely to create change by asking someone else to change.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then we are by setting clear, consistent and firm boundaries. It is fair to ask other people to change to make requests and to, you know, tell them how they're affecting you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But it is rarely fair or helpful to expect that someone change or to demand that they change in order for you to accept them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This creates a feeling of powerless in yourself because you're demanding that someone else change in order for you to feel okay
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We can take back our emotional safety by focusing on our own actions and creating clear, firm and consistent boundaries with others. Thanks for watching. I hope that was helpful and I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thought
Brian Kern: Oh, made a lot of sense to me. Oh.
Brian Kern: I guess the part that really stuck out was like, if you're like anxious or insecure that can create emotionally on a safe.
Brian Kern: Environment is as you know I get anxious, sometimes, you know,
Brian Kern: Yeah, I'm, you know, other than that, you know, I mean, I feel like home. At least it's very
Brian Kern: emotionally safe place, though, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What what stood out what characteristics about emotional safety, did you see we're already included in your home structure.
Brian Kern: You know, like
Brian Kern: Just
Brian Kern: Like the honesty in like, you know, we don't yell or anything like that.
Brian Kern: Um,
Brian Kern: What else did he say
Brian Kern: He was one of them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm judgmental.
Brian Kern: Yeah, exactly.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when mistakes are made there corrected, but in a non judgmental way so the feedback is given in a safe and respectful manner because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No one's married to anyone that's perfect.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So there will be opportunities to help your spouse to improve in something that may
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: pose as a hindrance or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: unhealthy for you. And so how do you communicate or express that to your spouse in a way that doesn't create depends from someone else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that doesn't make it seem like oh I don't know how to have this discussion, because there's several people that are in, they don't have the fortune, like you to be in those relationships and all state relationships. So it becomes challenging to express their needs, their wants
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you going to have fun. So what do you think works well for your marriage to keep it as an emotional safe environment.
Brian Kern: Was
Brian Kern: Like what I do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, you say you guys already have that. So what do you think people like if you were talking to other couples, what would you say that you and your wife do to keep an emotionally safe, healthy relationship.
Brian Kern: Oh, like we clearly communicate
Brian Kern: You know, I mean,
Brian Kern: Like I say, that's like the biggest thing, you know, I mean,
Brian Kern: Like
Brian Kern: That definitely that like like clear communication and not
Brian Kern: Not being like passive aggressive at all.
Brian Kern: That's the lawyer late you want to feel like, oh,
Brian Kern: Yeah definitely like just being like non judgmental at all.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what if the other person in relationships, apple, what do you guys do when there's issues. How do you, how do you work through that even when they're upset.
Brian Kern: I mean, every time we
Brian Kern: Had issues we just
Brian Kern: We
Brian Kern: Talked it out, you know, I mean, like we just
Brian Kern: You know, like, like when I relapsed in January.
You know, I mean like
Brian Kern: We just
Brian Kern: You know, I mean like talked about and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then like decided that I should
Brian Kern: Go back into treatment.
You know,
Brian Kern: And then, um,
Brian Kern: Yeah. Yeah, we just we spoke about it. I mean, she was like very she was non judgmental of all you know i mean she
Brian Kern: You know she was very upset, but it wasn't like
Brian Kern: You know she wasn't like yelling or anything like that. You know what I mean.
So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know we just like work.
Brian Kern: Work through it and like you know like took steps like the, you know, we need to do this and this.
And then
Brian Kern: Yeah, I mean it.
Is just
Brian Kern: Communication just like not
Brian Kern: A word like
Brian Kern: Non hostile you. I mean, just like not
Hostile
Brian Kern: Speaking no
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So then this is the formula that would help if there are the question I posed at the beginning. If there are emotional triggers for you now. Hard to process in
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Outwardly expressing that emotion is something that you're not naturally inclined to do
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You are aware now of the emotional faith relationship you have with your spouse and so rather than being reactive
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And saying, hey, I relaxed being proactive and communicating what's coming up for you and even be a princess non judgmental space. So being vulnerable enough to say, I feel like using
Brian Kern: So that she can create that environment and give you that safety to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: express your emotions outward
Brian Kern: Yeah, I'm actually already
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like
Brian Kern: promised her that I felt like using like tell her.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like a thing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, I mean,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He didn't do it during the last minute.
Brian Kern: I'm
Brian Kern: Honestly, I just was
Brian Kern: I was just like so anxious and everything that I just
Brian Kern: You know, I mean, it was like
Brian Kern: Just getting high then was like the only thing on my mind.
Brian Kern: And like he was
Brian Kern: You know, it was like
Brian Kern: She was like working so I just like went and did it. You know, I mean,
Brian Kern: Yeah. Since then those is when I've promised her that, like, you know, if I ever probably using you know definitely tell her.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yo, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Another important
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Formula to be mindful of is like in the video. They said emotional safety starts within you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it's great that you have a social support being your wife that can create that safety for you, but internally doing the work, so that you can also create a safe space for you that if your wife is at work again. The next time you have a strong influence craving.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For Brian to be able to be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: self sufficient to fight the cravings and they are when he's able to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Communicate with his wife say, hey, this is what I went through and look. I didn't use to be able to put on that rescuer Kate that hero case that you mentioned last session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That I don't want upon the victim Kate and my wife has to figure out how to help me in my next relax.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can say that I was a hero for my own sobriety and that is something that's going to help her to to build the trust because I'm always curious to know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When there's in a relationship. And when there's a relax. If the other spouse kind of feels nervous about when will this happen again. And does that nervousness decrease the trust me anyway.
Brian Kern: Yeah, I definitely feel like a little bit
Brian Kern: Definitely and
Brian Kern: You know she felt really like the trade when when I when I used
Brian Kern: It's definitely taken
Brian Kern: It's definitely taken time
Brian Kern: Since then, you know, I mean,
Brian Kern: But yeah, I mean, definitely. Yeah, I mean, you know, she felt very, very betrayed and I didn't
Brian Kern: And I didn't come to her first, you know,
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Brian Kern: I mean it's it's it's done better though.
No.
Brian Kern: I was gonna say like as long as I'm like, you know, honest.
Brian Kern: Like it's it's good, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What ways have you created emotional safety within yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Did you hear my question.
Brian Kern: I heard the first half.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: X. In what ways have you created emotional safety within yourself.
Brian Kern: Oh,
Brian Kern: I mean, I am
Brian Kern: I tried to just like
Brian Kern: Make sure I'm not like all like, anxious, all the time. Now that's like the biggest one, like I
Brian Kern: Gotta keep my anxiety and check, very much.
Brian Kern: I feel like that's like the biggest thing, you know. Oh.
Brian Kern: I just tried to take care of myself, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But my favorite part of the video was allowing yourself to communicate the vulnerable emotions and not just secondary emotions because second
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And yeah, the secondary emotions are anger and irritation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And often times on here patients, they'll say, I have an anger issues I get frustrated, real easy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when I push them a little harder about really what's been behind that. So always something else that was underlined that led to the anger or the irritation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's always some type of trigger, whether it be feeling disrespected not feeling valued or feeling loss of control that, then that anger rises.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the secondary emotions or for you in this case because you are very open like even though I understood and I felt for that group member I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: couldn't understand why everybody was out weeds person their emotions. You know what I heard in that was listening, a little awkward to be in the middle.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, to be in the midst of that and like okay yeah this is hard. But I think we're kind of crying you know so begin in that space in that capacity, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You may not know what your primary emotions or even the secondary one because you've been in this emotional numbness for so long because of the trauma us
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the work would be really identifying
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What you mentioned Jeff and Dan vulnerable enough to acknowledge it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what you do next is totally up to you. But some people have acknowledged it in general, it can be by knowledge and share with other people because it helps them in being accountable as well. So I'm going to pull up my little emotion start
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it is captures that there's so much more to just being happy, sad or mad.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah complexities of emotions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And there is this is actually two pages long. So I'll scroll once once we get, you know, towards the bottom
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There any emotions that you can identify that you felt today.
Brian Kern: Today I'm
Brian Kern: Probably
Brian Kern: Calm definitely you know I'm
Calm.
Brian Kern: Oh yeah, I felt really all earlier. I'm
Brian Kern: Hungry. He's on there. I felt hungry are
Brian Kern: You hungry is on there. Oh.
Brian Kern: Yeah, I probably just say like column and just
Brian Kern: Hungry.
Brian Kern: Just
Brian Kern: Probably those three
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What am I should be accurately conveys what you felt in group.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let me scroll down
Brian Kern: Cut off.
Brian Kern: Probably honestly
Brian Kern: Maybe a little
Brian Kern: Scared for
Brian Kern: No.
Brian Kern: You know, like
Brian Kern: Yeah, exactly, because you know nowadays when people relapse. They usually
Die.
Brian Kern: Sorry is connecting yeah my connection sucks right now. Um,
Brian Kern: Yeah, just kind of scared, she might like overdose and die, you know,
Brian Kern: That's probably the biggest one.
Brian Kern: You know, it's just like
Brian Kern: I wouldn't like outwardly. You know, like Show show that, though, you know, I mean,
Brian Kern: I don't even know how to
Brian Kern: You know, except maybe just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's it. Brian, even though you can't out will show the emotion, being able to say it is equally powerful
And
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I would, I would say that that would help your wife to in identifying vulnerabilities and best ways to support you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: from a woman's perspective, I can imagine if you had someone that puts on that rescuer world whenever their struggle and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For the most part, does not display emotional vulnerability and the only way I find out that my, my husband has some vulnerability is through his addiction to relax.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She might miss it. She might miss those little signs that opens up doing okay you know because there's no outwardly displayed. And so we take on the hero complex and you know she feels comfortable. She was protected in that, but then
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Here comes. Hey, I had a relapse. And now, like you said she had as soon as a feel betrayed because also what that was communicating was I never seen the sun.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No hurry motion may have been surprised worried, and scared to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Process. She probably question herself, what could I have done to prevent this from happening.
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the best gift you continuously give her in this beautiful marriage is even though I won't show it outwardly. I will tell you how I'm feeling.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even if what I'm feeling does not match up with what the rescuer typically you're supposed to feel like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The common oil because so for alone. I'm going to tell you that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If I'm annoyed because I went back to work, but that drug, you know, drug addict co worker still shooting up in the bathroom.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm gonna tell you and I might even have to stretch a little further and say I'm a little nervous, working with me because I don't want to be tempted
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Brian Kern: I'm actually pretty
Brian Kern: Pretty sure the
Brian Kern: I'm not gonna go work for back there after this
Brian Kern: You know,
Brian Kern: As soon as things open back up and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I think that's a smart thing to do. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm happy that that group experience that shows me that that group has emotional safety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For her to express
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, yeah. That's amazing. That's powerful.
Brian Kern: Yeah, they are. It gets
Brian Kern: Doesn't get into quite that emotional every week, but definitely everybody's like, comfortable talking
Brian Kern: Through everything in that group.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you think keeps that group cohesion comfortable so that people can do that.
Brian Kern: I think it's, it's like when the first person does it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know,
Brian Kern: When the first person is like truly open like that then gives other people
Brian Kern: Courage to like be open like that, you know, I mean,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Brian Kern: I kind of give some
Brian Kern: You know, they get the idea that, like, oh wait, I actually can't talk to stuff in here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because humans on wireless connection. We want to be understood to someone allow themselves to be vulnerable. It's like, oh, I was born that way. The other day too.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so that's good. And I would encourage you that you have a time that rises up for you, but you have something that's going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because you identified that this is an emotional safe environment, you know, maybe you would want to take it a step and practice it in that environment first at the same group, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hey, I'm feeling scared for you and what you shared because you know when people relax. He died.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: By you sharing that information that might be exactly what she needed to hear. Like you know what he's right. I don't want that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it may not feel as comfortable with your wife right now, only because you want to continue to be that strong role, you may not want to expose that vulnerability, because you don't want her been to get worried about your sobriety.
Brian Kern: Exactly.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You don't want to transfer your emotions onto her so group here in this session. It's a good way to practice that emotional safety to express through words how you're feeling so that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, when the going gets tough.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'll be able to tell my spouse, but also I will let her know that this is my team.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I don't want to project this on to you. This is me just letting
Brian Kern: Me select a sense
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So if you could, I can either email it to you or you can take a picture, because I would love to share this with you, just so that you could do a little emotional safety check in with yourself daily
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To figure out, you know what's going on with you.
Brian Kern: Yeah. Do you think you could email to me. I don't, I don't know how to take screenshots my
Brian Kern: Phone actually don't. I don't think I can take a screenshot with it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I want to know how to do it either.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It says one person impressed me when they said, oh, I took the picture of it. Maybe they were aligned to me. I don't know. But ever since then I'm like, Okay.
Brian Kern: No, you definitely can. Like I had a phone for this.
Brian Kern: I can take a screenshot.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything else you would like to discuss
Brian Kern: Um, nothing I can think, oh,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You said, I'm doing this the same time next week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right.
Definitely
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have Monday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No, sorry. Wednesday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Same time six o'clock.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's April 29 at six.
Brian Kern: Okay. Oh.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What I would like you to do is keep a log. So starting tomorrow, Thursday, until we meet Wednesday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What emotions. He felt. Okay. And then what is the next session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I'll
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just forward it to you now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, Ryan. Will you have a good night.
Brian Kern: You too. Thank you, Jessica.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're welcome. Bye bye.